hello everyone and welcome to the June
4th project working group week we think
we are going to go over some of our q2
epochs and progress on those and please
add any additional agenda items to our
doc and we can get started
Jessica right Andrew do one of you want
to give a quick update on package
managers research and knowledge sharing
both at once you gotta take it Andrew
sure yes a we've special any of that no
sorry
maybe you can go Jessica wass I am so so
yeah we we did a lot of really good work
this week had a couple of really very
productive discussions very free-for-all
discussions that are starting to focus
in terms of putting together in the next
month Redknapp which is super so watch
that space having another chat I believe
on Friday to get a little bit further on
that also solidified plans for the
package managers deep dive at I CFS camp
that's gonna be a slightly different
deep dive than some of the others and
that we're going to be talking about
some of the problems facing package
managers and users and maintain errs
that ipfs could help solve so talking
about those pain points and opportunity
points these are things that we've
uncovered certain are our research this
spring but we also want to make sure
that as we're putting together our
roadmap for the next six months that
we're getting a good overview of the
ranking and the general importance of
these things that we come up with and
the news flash there's this shiny thing
called entropic and maybe andrew is not
a robot anymore because he did all the
work and like him to talk about bad are
you do robot applied Andrew maybe toys
how robot EDI sound so yeah there's a
the ex CTO of NPM has put out like it's
very early right now for a federated
package manager and the idea being that
it
an easy registry to spin up for yourself
and it will proxy out to other to NPM
where it can't find packages but allows
you to actually publish packages to your
own mini registry and then have a set
amount of syncing in between them still
kind of working out exactly all of the
details there's a there's kind of a
basic working thing there but it it
doesn't have a lot of they're kind of
federated things that you would expect
in something like Macedon yeah
the interest the really interesting bit
is the internals look awful lot like
ipfs and IP LD and I believe we'll be
able to add in ipfs support which if
it's in both the client and the
individual federated registry instances
then could potentially be a really big
win for because it's so early there's
very little in terms of kind of changes
need to be made but also every
individual instance can choose whether
they wish to kind of run an IP FS
version or a filesystem version which
for some setups like on Heroku where you
have no disk is potentially a really
cost efficient way of of running an
instance for yourself so I did some
research and they kind of the next steps
will be to to reach out and kind of work
out a good way to to see how we can work
together and actually like start to try
and implement real IP FS integration
into a package manager
the link is in the Google Doc if anyone
wants to dive in and see more details or
wants to get involved in like planning
how best to support it I think Andrew
already has some some pointers in that
right up thank you Andrew for like this
was announced on like Saturday and and
already has a write-up on it so everyone
give him major kudos for being SP
diamond and getting us the like hot off
the presses research and analysis cuz
damn that's awesome so I think there's
some pointers in there as well into like
you know here are the areas that are
gonna be a little bit trickier or things
that make this a little bit rougher than
we'd like it to and and more on that as
it comes to kind of our road mapping
work as well of what we're gonna be
needing to to do to make this and and
similar sorts of things actually really
Pleasant and obvious wins for all the
people trying to adopt the other thing
just to throw in it that I think we can
do a good job of trying to make it a
community integration rather than like
we said on a call the other day we don't
want any package manager to put all
their eggs in our basket like it's even
worse than us putting all of our eggs in
our own basket getting asking someone
else to put their eggs in our basket is
is a big big ask so being able to have
potentially even the the proposal could
enable support for other systems like
that and the user or the default choice
can be switched out which means that the
project isn't tied to like oh you
definitely have to use ipfs but does
enable it to be deeply integrated at the
same time if if you do choose to use it
rather than it just being an edge case
I just had a thought and I think it sort
of plays into our hands that we're
content addressed and there's so much
fragmentation there's gonna be a whole
bunch of people trying to solve
decentralized NPM at the same time but
they're all storing the exact same blobs
the same tarballs for all the things so
like you know if even the ones that
aren't winning you know it they're still
providing extra peers for all these
these things so the content will be on I
confessed and maintained if we can
partner with some of them
awesome thank you for the update this
nominal um I don't see a daveed on this
call but maybe we can crowdsource an
update on IP of us can sit so many
people have their thinkers and in
different chunks of the pie from from my
understanding everyone from the ipfs
team who's applied to attend IP fest
camp should have an email that I think
includes all trainers as well you know
if you're coming and to train people at
ipfs camp you definitely need to be
coming so make sure to I think there's
click the thing I think it's going to
enable us to like keep track of the
number of people that are coming tied to
the best camp really packed early so
check your email and just make sure to
do whatever the email tells you to do I
haven't clicked on the email yet so
kudos was in there but I'm sure
something phenomenal and yeah if you
have any questions about that feel free
to email me or Dawid or someone Jessica
you're muted alright so awesome news is
pending one confirmation we have all of
the Lightning talks lots full up which
is super super we had originally been
like all right like let's just take
everybody and I don't know presented my
mind or something afterwards but the
cool thing is we are actually there's
gonna be a meet up in Barcelona proper
the night before camp starts so while we
have as far as I know pending weirdness
all the Lightning talks fill up for camp
itself we would love to toss a couple of
extra lightning talks into that pre meet
up on Wednesday night so with that in
mind I will offer the link to the
confirmed lightning talks in the summer
in the notes document but if you can
think of anybody who isn't in that list
please send them my way because now is
the perfect time to get people roof in
to give them enough time to put together
a talk that you know won't stress them
out and keep them all night trying to do
it
so thanks in advance woohoo good call
Arkady is this your your sci-fi fair
update anything there one thing that I
wanted to I actually wanted to address
was the changing over to the public the
public we post and then we and there was
this idea of doing everyone who is
accepted right or contributor access
there then we just wanted an update on
that's how to you know get them getting
more involved does anyone know um I I
wasn't I don't know I've know that we
have started adding given people
especially people who are creating
courses access to the existing repo
which didn't involve migrating
everything okay all right so it sounds
like maybe I should just find find other
ways maybe that plan isn't working out
so the
of the science period is is coming along
we have maybe like four or five like
fully confirmed people everyone else is
kind of in fight in various stages we
definitely wants more people to submit
their projects I'm sure there's gonna be
a lot of interest I was waiting for this
as a process to kick in today it's not
sure what's happening with that so I
guess we'll just proceed with wizzle's
nothing's okay and I get instructions
and then can take four all posted so
this is presenting please fill that out
I think it's a great opportunity for for
us to just stick cool things um on
monitors and screens seemingly there is
a new just gonna work my my personal
screen again this thing is a lifesaver
it's like a little portable monitor that
I take with me traveling all the time
which is unbelievable best Christmas
present ever and now they have two new
versions one of which is like force
touch so you can like tap on it and like
explore stuff which is unbelievable and
they also have a gaming one if you are a
heavy switch user and get annoyed
playing Mario Kart with your friends on
a tiny screen so just saying if anyone
wants to invest and bring at ipfs camp
these are well worth the investment
and I'm sure yeah make everyone more
productive yeah we'll be we'll be
renting monitors for people anyway so
this might actually end up costing like
a comfortable amount to like a real
monitor rental so that's definitely
something to keep in mind yeah it's like
a hundred bucks or something
many people yes people have things that
are like they don't think that are
enough for a full-on sci-fi show like
this I think we will have a bunch of
like smaller things consolidated into
one booth where they'll be like a
rotating kind of slide show like video
real so you know don't be shy it's
become
whoo-hoo all right any other I could
just camp related updates questions
concerns
go ahead Terry Harry speaks um yeah so
just a quick note I I obviously have
been a little bit off the grid lately
but to the best of my knowledge in terms
of like content that will be delivered
through proto-tool as its format the
only thing I'm aware of right now is
Alan using the new mff tutorial seems to
be released MSS tutorial in his core
workshop assist anyone else has heard
rumors of people actually presenting
through sort of school sweet let me know
so I can get on that I remember
correctly the textile folks have also
are also tentatively planning to use
part of evil they mentioned it earlier
and then I haven't seen any I don't know
yeah I should clarify it didn't come up
in our elective meet up with them last
weekend so we'll do a check in with them
this weekend enough sure cool cool all
right any anything else nope okay cool
um our last epic topic to talk about is
leveling up the work we reran some of
our KPIs last week looking at some of
the high level metrics around kind of
ipfs visibility which is a very rough
proxy by by looking at mentions and some
of the like public network stats by
looking at the limp EP network and how
many ipfs nodes are on it and we see
very nice improvements since when we
last measured and kind of mid march so
things aren't doing quite well a lot of
this is not necessarily like organic
growth a pace I think our mentions have
to do with we have IP of us can't coming
up and are talking a lot about that
where
with all of the folks who are coming and
the network sized stuff has to do with
the changes we've made to Limpy to
commute with Auto relay and so people
are just shuttling through kind of more
more central paths in the network and
therefore are easier to find a lot of
different peers and and pull them within
a regular period of time but still
pretty exciting it gives us slightly
better understanding of all of the nodes
that do exist somewhere in the network
we just previously work reaching them in
our 24 hour a little ping cycle and so
that's awesome quick that ties me into a
quick reminder that like we are we are
now significantly past the middle of the
quarter I think in about two ish weeks
we're gonna be doing next quarters look
ahead at the right before ipfs camp and
so everyone who we've we've mostly gone
through I took a look quick look at the
okay Archie um almost all of the working
groups have gone through and and done
grading for for mid-quarter but
something that I hoped we could do this
quarter was give kind of like little
summarized updates from each working
group I'm kind of like this is what's
going really well
this is what's a little bit at risk
which is nice synthesis for ourselves to
understand what we need to be focusing
more on and also useful for other
working groups to get kind of without
looking at every other working groups
sheet a high-level picture of like this
is on track this is not so much on track
so especially the folks who are in this
call can I ask you guys to I will I will
stick in a link to this issue but if you
could just take five minutes and write
like three bullet points I think that
will help open the floodgates and other
other working groups as well will will
jump on that bandwagon if it gets more
traction than me just painting it and I
think that would be really useful for
everyone so I'll stick that in the chat
any okay
I guess I'd another I didn't Dietrich
can you go first while I find this link
yeah sure I added a link to Michael and
Molly had did a little workaround
rebooting the community efforts and put
a proposal there for structuring that
working through the lens of these three
different rules if you click through the
issue there but definitely one thing
this is the type of thing that affects
all the working groups just some extent
and also all of the staff from all of
the working groups since this is a
project it's a lot of open source a lot
of public facing activity and we all
kind of do a little bit of this stuff
all the time so just a quick shout out
to them for their great work and kicking
this off and keep it going after the
nature of the previous community working
group could have changed and a request
to all of you to spend a minute and drop
your thoughts in there if you have some
call-out you think I mean the highest
level question that I see from tricks
note on it it's kind of whether this is
focused more on contributors or users
and if so what kind of of those things
are we looking at I think my the thing
that's top of mind for me is like is
pure usability so not even contribute
you know it has to be usable in some way
it has to be understandable enough that
you can use it like that's actually I
think the free bar before being usable
enough that you can contribute to it
because there's a level of depth you
need to be able to get into to like
figure out how to make it do the thing
you wanted to do and then there's a
level of depth to like I know now how to
like contribute back into it but I think
one drives the other as well like you
care about using something then you're
more likely to help tweak that little
thing that's going to make it even even
better for your use case and so I would
I'd probably focus slightly first on
usability I also just think we still
have a ways to go in
in pure usability and then in focus have
a half contribution be something that
like we we organically support from that
point
and I can respond to that I yeah Terry
go ahead Thanks um yeah I I tend to
agree with you on that and this is
something that we looked at specifically
when we realized we were getting
overwhelmed in the last iteration 15 is
just getting overwhelmed by poems and
many directions and when Michael looked
at it my impression of the assessment
was you can think of this as a funnel
and you have to have a user for them to
become a contributor and there's just so
much on that point as you said so that
would be my inclination also but I do
think stuff like that contributor office
hours that Ollie started like there are
some small some small thank you to pick
off to improve thank you me contribute
your experience along the way but
totally varied you Mellie yeah even just
like rewarding it like you know I would
say let's make it really easy to use and
then let's celebrate people when they
contribute as well and maybe the
combination of those things will be a
better fit but first first off it's
we've gotta just document the things
that do the things like especially if
there's things were recommending lots of
people to do that make our lives easier
and make the network better let's maybe
tell people about it and explain to them
why because then they're more likely to
do it and it makes it better for
everybody so win-win cool any other
thoughts on this topic please add them
to here but also if we we mention them
here maybe it will be reminded
would it be one of these three people
we're hiring that would be in charge of
the working group or someone who's
already here would move into that roller
what are you rich mean yeah I I think
like for for now I think we're hoping to
bring someone into kind of the project
working group space who will be doing
more of this community stuff whether
that's someone who's already
contributing to the project I know there
are a lot of awesome humans kind of
within our close working groups too or
just like very active in the various
repos team management repo or or helping
out in other parts of our community on
the forum and on IRC who could probably
fit fits for that and so source those
people try and bring them bring them
closer bring them to this forum or
connect them more closely
I think there's also like opportunity to
look into other communities and find
people who are doing a really good job
of this elsewhere and can bring some of
those best practices and and knowledge
to our group who are not already in ipfs
communities I think a little bit of both
I think in the very short term to the
kind of Michael's point we're gonna
start like incubating this in the
project working group before we try and
and restart something like a community
working group and I did prioritize kind
of the roles that I think are most
critical mostly based on the feedback
that we we talked about it in previous
calls but but yeah I think I think
anything where we bring on someone who's
like an expert at this stuff will be
empowering and trusting that expert to
also think about how our strategy should
evolve going forward and and bring that
expertise and knowledge to ensuring that
what we think right now is the best path
is actually optimal
last three minutes just question whether
folks currently we record these meetings
but we kind of stick them in a drive
folder somewhere any concerns with
sticking them up on YouTube instead I
think we've been pretty intermittent
about actually doing that in the past
but it makes them much more accessible
downside you get to see me eating
breakfast in the mornings sometimes just
always lovely but pros everyone who
wants to index on any of our road
mouthing conversations any of our our
other kind of project level thoughts
what's happening in this working group
just it's a lot more accessible than
trying to find a link somewhere you're
gonna get hub issue and drive folder all
the BLA even if it is technically
accessible it's less so any any concerns
Jim just generally I think we should try
to get more and more stuff out of
YouTube but I think the I think we will
know we're actually being successful
when people start from the community
start coming into the calls which is
going to decrease their productivity
perhaps in a lot of ways cuz well like
the real thing so so I think the fact
that nobody comes into the calls right
now means that we're successfully hiding
them but then like that's not good in a
way so yeah yeah I think I'm sticking
them up on YouTube will will start
helping people I don't know how to stick
something on to YouTube I've gone to D 2
the number of times but I own any steam
and I think you have to own steam to put
things on YouTube if anyone has steam be
my guest
and maybe start with like a video that's
likely to become popular I think
otherwise it's a money expenditure go
ahead Jim I think what would make sense
is perhaps like building a like a a
calendar page with video links and then
maybe unlisting the meeting so they're
still there if you follow the link from
a calendar page because they're
basically sort of like staff meetings
but like right now people it's hard to
discover the community calendar if it is
even is out there on the community repo
I put a big picture of it on the
community repo because it used to just
be a little URL and I was like no now
guys we need a nice big image would be
nice if just like you know this is like
the ipfs project this is how you get
involved go here here's here's where all
the meetings are at there's videos of
them in notes but but I think like
having like probably the website linked
to it the the YouTube itself doesn't see
feel very curated so so we just dump
everything there yeah so I know we have
playlists but yeah we haven't it would
be great if someone who is thinking
about all of our public communication
channels like IRC and the forum and
YouTube thank you for adding another one
that we need to to focus on but yeah
anyone has bandwidth or strong opinions
the fact that every time you go to the
ipfs channel you hear the same high
video start auto-playing at you every
single time drives me a little bit
bonkers we could do a better job at that
I actually tried to reconfigure that it
got to that level of like novice this
has to stop and I couldn't figure out
how to YouTube creators tbo is like a
little difficult to use if anyone has
experience with it let me know I'd be
happy to know all right okay well we are
on time and I think we'll we'll call it
there and this video will go up on
YouTube so starting the trip thank you
all for a luna bomb meeting and see you
next week
you